README.md, before:

# OC EFI - Designare Z390 + Radeon VII

[OpenCore](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/) EFI for Gygabite Designare Z390 motherboards.

[![OpenCore](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCore-0.8.5-blue.svg)](https://github.com/acidanthera/OpenCorePkg) [![macOS-stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-12.6-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/monterey) [![macOS-stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-10.14-brightgreen.svg)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/macos-mojave/id1398502828)

## Contents

`EFI - DEBUG` - Debug version of OC and all Kexts, all logging enabled / Slower boot + verbose boot.  
`EFI - RELEASE` - Release version of OC and all Kexts, all logging disabled / Faster boot + no verbose.

### Full desktop configuration:

| Component | Name | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| Motherboard | **Gigabyte Designare Z390 (rev 1.0)** | Bios v.F7 |
| CPU | **Intel Core i9 9900k** | Coffee Lake |
| dGPU | **XFX Radeon VII Aktiv 16GB** | |
| SSD M.2 NVMe | **Adata XPG SX8200 pro** | |
| SSD M.2 NVMe | **Samsung 970 EVO Plus** | |
| WiFi / Bluetooth | **Fenvi T919 PCIe** | BCM94360CD Chip |
| RAM | **G.Skill RipJaws V 32GB 3200 DDR4** | |
| Monitor | **BenQ PD2700U** | 27" |
| FAN | **Be Quiet PURE LOOP 240mm (BW006)** | | 
| Case | **NZXT H510** | |

### What works

- [x] iGPU: Intel UHD Graphics 630, full hardware acceleration.
  - [x] DisplayPort (USB-C type) output max: 4K@60Hz.
  - [x] HDMI output max: 4K@30Hz.
- [x] dGPU, full hardware acceleration.
- [x] Audio: Realtek ALC1220 (alcid layout 11).
- [x] WiFi/Bluetooth (w/ Fenvi).
- [x] Ethernet.
- [x] USB (Thanks to [seven-of-eleven](https://github.com/seven-of-eleven/designare-z390-opencore-efi) for the port map, using n.1 to power the Fenvi card).
- [x] Lifecycle (On, Off, Sleep).
- [x] All iStuff (FaceTime, Messages, etc.).
- [x] OpenCore boot UI (OpenCanopy) and startup chime 🔈.

### What doesn't work

- [ ] DRM, see [here](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/drm.html#testing-drm) for details.

### Not tested

- FileVault.
- Thunderbolt, but no reason it shouldn't work.

## Notes

- BIOS configured as per [guide](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config.plist/coffee-lake.html#intel-bios-settings).
- You'll need to replace any occurrence of `[CHANGEME]` in `OC/config.plist` using your own PlatformInfo, [see guide](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config.plist/coffee-lake.html#platforminfo).
- Tested on both Mojave and Monterey, works over a full upgrade from one to the other.
- To migrate from Clover to OpenCore it might be enough to replace your existing Clover EFI for this, just make sure to:
  - Set your own PlatformInfo (taken from the Clover EFI) to the new one (see above).
  - [Cleanup your system from Clover](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/clover-conversion/#cleaning-the-clover-junk-in-macos).

Commit message:

Adds headless mode iGPU option
https://www.tonymacx86.com/threads/guide-intel-uhd-graphics-630-coffee-lake-headless-mode-main-card.304000/

README.md, after:

# OC EFI - Designare Z390 + Radeon VII

[OpenCore](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/) EFI for Gygabite Designare Z390 motherboards.

[![OpenCore](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCore-0.8.5-blue.svg)](https://github.com/acidanthera/OpenCorePkg) [![macOS-stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-12.6-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/monterey) [![macOS-stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-10.14-brightgreen.svg)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/macos-mojave/id1398502828)

## Contents

`EFI - DEBUG` - Debug version of OC and all Kexts, all logging enabled / Slower boot + verbose boot.  
`EFI - RELEASE` - Release version of OC and all Kexts, all logging disabled / Faster boot + no verbose.

### Choose config.plist

Each folder contains two config.plist versions. Depending on your setup you might want to choose between (1) using the iGPU for video output, or (2) use the Radeon VII for video output and use iGPU in [headless mode](https://www.tonymacx86.com/threads/guide-intel-uhd-graphics-630-coffee-lake-headless-mode-main-card.304000/):

1. Rename `config-igpu.plist` to `config.plist`.
2. Rename `config-headless.plist` to `config.plist`.

### Full desktop configuration:

| Component | Name | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| Motherboard | **Gigabyte Designare Z390 (rev 1.0)** | Bios v.F7 |
| CPU | **Intel Core i9 9900k** | Coffee Lake |
| dGPU | **XFX Radeon VII Aktiv 16GB** | |
| SSD M.2 NVMe | **Adata XPG SX8200 pro** | |
| SSD M.2 NVMe | **Samsung 970 EVO Plus** | |
| WiFi / Bluetooth | **Fenvi T919 PCIe** | BCM94360CD Chip |
| RAM | **G.Skill RipJaws V 32GB 3200 DDR4** | |
| Monitor | **BenQ PD2700U** | 27" |
| FAN | **Be Quiet PURE LOOP 240mm (BW006)** | | 
| Case | **NZXT H510** | |

### What works

- [x] iGPU: Intel UHD Graphics 630, full hardware acceleration.
  - [x] DisplayPort (USB-C type) output max: 4K@60Hz.
  - [x] HDMI output max: 4K@30Hz.
- [x] dGPU, full hardware acceleration.
- [x] Audio: Realtek ALC1220 (alcid layout 11).
- [x] WiFi/Bluetooth (w/ Fenvi).
- [x] Ethernet.
- [x] USB (Thanks to [seven-of-eleven](https://github.com/seven-of-eleven/designare-z390-opencore-efi) for the port map, using n.1 to power the Fenvi card).
- [x] Lifecycle (On, Off, Sleep).
- [x] All iStuff (FaceTime, Messages, etc.).
- [x] OpenCore boot UI (OpenCanopy) and startup chime 🔈.

### What doesn't work

- [ ] DRM, see [here](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/drm.html#testing-drm) for details.

### Not tested

- FileVault.
- Thunderbolt, but no reason it shouldn't work.

## Notes

- BIOS configured as per [guide](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config.plist/coffee-lake.html#intel-bios-settings).
- You'll need to replace any occurrence of `[CHANGE_ME]` in `OC/config.plist` using your own PlatformInfo, [see guide](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config.plist/coffee-lake.html#platforminfo).
- Tested on both Mojave and Monterey, works over a full upgrade from one to the other.
- To migrate from Clover to OpenCore it might be enough to replace your existing Clover EFI for this, just make sure to:
  - Set your own PlatformInfo (taken from the Clover EFI) to the new one (see above).
  - [Cleanup your system from Clover](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/clover-conversion/#cleaning-the-clover-junk-in-macos).
